---
layout: post
title: "The P vs NP Dilemma"
date: 2018-02-11
published: true
---

I've always known about P vs. NP through internet memes, but I never really delved into the nitty-gritty of it. What's so fascinating about it and why is everyone still discussing it?

# What exactly is P vs. NP?

As I've learned over a random bout of procrastination, P vs. NP is a debate that has stumped computer scientists and mathematicians of this era. "P" stands for polynomial time and "NP" stands for non-deterministic polynomial time in reference to the time it takes for an algorithm to run. The reason this is such a provocative question is that if P= NP, that would destroy the foundation of cryptography, because crytopgraphy depends on the fact that hashing algorithms are mathematically "hard" to solve. Most academics believe that P != NP. However, on the other, if P=NP, that means some things are doomed to be computationally hard and will never have an algorithm that solves it efficiently, like for example, sequencing the human genome.

However, as this is all theoretical, whether or not P = NP or P!= NP does mean those that are NP are instantly solveable, but that a solution is possible.

But this reason the P vs. NP question excites me is that it makes me excited that there are still unanswered questions in the world. For the longest time, I believed that since that "dotcom" boom was over, that I could barely contribute to computer science, but I realize that there are so many things to be discovered, especially since there are still so many fields that have yet to exist.

I have begun to read the research paper of a man who claims to have solved the P vs NP problem and will update this when I understand it!
